##  General info about MetaAlign

* Metaalign requires a C++ compiler (tested with GNU compiler).

* Metaalign uses HMMoC (developed by George Lunter) for execution. The version
of HMMoC used by Metalign is hmmoc-1.3 (free to download).

* The ../XML-source folder contains FullModel_Nov24.xml, which can be used
as input to HMMoC to generate source files (.h & .cc). This release contains
these sources. Generally this is a time consuming process.

* The ../testseq folder contains sample sequences which can be used as a basis
to create new sequence. These sequences are in FASTQ format.

* A Makefile is provided to build the software, Make Metaalign will build the entire
code, build is a time consuming process. An executable (located under ../binaries) is 
packaged with this release and can be used out of the box.  

* Typical metaalign comparison for 200 X 200 sequence is about 30 mins and is
very likely to be machine dependent.

* This code does not support any form of parallelism.

* This software has not be tested on Windows.


Input Files:
params.txt: Is an input file used by metaalign, it takes an 3 inputs,
            QParam  : Rate at which the quality value needs to be reduced.
            QMin    : Minimum quality value, no reduction beyond this value.
            Q_N     : Order (Linear, quadratic) of reduction.
                     Not supported in this release.
           
Codon2Prot.txt: An input file which provides a direct map between Codons and proteins.
                The information in this file is very general and is stored in a specific
                format.

query.fastq, sub.fastq : Subject sequence and Query sequence in FASTQ format. Look under 
                         ../testseq for a sample sequences. In FASTQ format the quality
                         values are stored as ASCI charecters.


Runtime options:

Additional information:

HMMoC XML Generator (../scripts/XMLGenerator)
The XML files for HMMoC are generated using following input,
Blossum62 (stored in blosum62.qij) is used to compute the various target frequencies. 
CFU.txt contains information on Codon usage frequency used by Metaalign. Please refer to the paper 
to see how these are used in computing final probabilities (especially for DEGENERATIVE model). 

../XML-source
FullModel_OLD.xml contains the original proposed model with 3721 states, which we found
to be computationally unfeasable to use. On the other hand FullModel_Nov24.xml contains
the final degenerative model.

Real Sequence used for comparison



Analysis of impact of quality value on alignment,
The 45 sequences used for testing and corresponding tables can be found under, 








